Ecaloid is the capital city of Nunavut and it's one of the most northern cities in Canada.
The winter months are long, dark and cold.
It's a small population only about 7,000 people.
It's a beautiful place, but also a challenging place to live, to work and to raise a family.
Because of these factors, it wasn't until many decades after the truth had spread through
most of southern Canada that it finally reached Ecaloid.
Over the years, small groups of publishers would travel to Ecaloid and the area on preaching
campaigns.
However, the challenge was that there was no group or congregation in the province,
so it was very hard for interested ones to make progress.
Bill and Ena Lidstone were among the first people in Ecaloid to hear the truth.
Well, I grew up as an alien and I used to go to church to my grandmother on Sundays.
We were taught about heaven and hell, and that was scary because if you dissipate it,
you're going to hell, and I don't want to be dissipated.
Bill was from the island of Newfoundland and he heard the truth when he was young.
However, before he had an opportunity to study the Bible, he moved away to Ecaloid in 1978.
What had learned initially about the truth stuck with me, and I knew I was, you know, about
2,000 kilometers from any congregation or any witnesses, so I remember praying to Jehovah.
If there's any way that someone could help me learn more to progress, you know, can you
do it?
Well, little did Bill know that a brother by the name of Greg Kittle had come to Ecaloid
for work.
However, he was just going to be there a few weeks.
He was a knock at the door one evening, answered the door, and there's a man standing there
wearing a shirt and tie, which was really unusual, and he started his presentation, and I
didn't let him finish.
I said, are you one of Jehovah's Witnesses?
He was probably almost as surprised as I was.
He told me later that he had also been praying to find someone, and that was the first
night that he started going door to door.
Someone was guiding him.
I have never heard Jehovah's name, so actually knowing about Jesus' heads of father, Jehovah,
and he's a hero of our prayers.
It's already good to me.
Well finally, after several courageous families made the decision and the sacrifice to move
to the area, a group was formed in 2008, and two years later, a congregation was formed.
We were just amazed to see that there were still places in our own country that had a need.
Proverbs 11 and 14 says you'll find success through many advisors.
We tried to apply that.
We wrote the branch to find out more about the needs.
We talked to the elders up there and some of the brothers and sisters that are already
in the lift in a calivate, and they were so helpful in helping us to prepare for how
to make a big move like that.
Even though we are arriving to an isolated place, we felt the warmth of the brothers and sisters
right away.
When we got off the plane and entered the airport, the entire group of brothers and sisters
was there waiting for us, and they offered us practical support, too, as we set up a new
life there.
Well, another concern we had was the extreme cold and the dark winters.
In fact, it was those cold, dark nights where we saw the most brilliant northern lights
and starry skies, and on blizzard days, it was such a great opportunity to associate
and get together with the congregation, so those were the things that got us through.
I remember going out in service for the very first time, and actually the first door that
I knocked on, a man came and said that he had just been praying, asking God to send
him someone to help him understand the Bible, and he invited us in.
So we knew right away that the ministry was going to be a real source of joy for us.
In 2022, the first Kingdom Hall was built in the city of Ecaloate.
Over the years, they've met in school, gymnasiums and hotels, but now Jehovah has blessed their
hard work with a Kingdom Hall that brings so much praise to his name, and it's all because
these ones made themselves available for so long.
It has taught me that Jehovah is a hero prayer, and if he hears someone praying for help,
he will sense someone even if you live far away.
Well Jesus told us that this message would reach all parts of the earth.
This tells us that Jehovah loves all people, and when the time was right, Jehovah ensured
that his people reached the Canadian North.